家書		2022.03	蘇貴珠 

雪球越滾越大，唔好俾佢停呀！大家同心加油！ 

華粵學院自一月一日成立至今，三個月來全體人員未有一日休息過，由一個創辦人到三位董事以及載至今天為止29位義工，合共32人嘅團隊，按各人專長及意願分為語文、教學、籌款、影音、社媒、設計及文件七組，透過各媒介全力實踐學院三大目標：推動、連結及訓練。

學院至今已完成一項全球比賽，一次非廣東話人士初學者與老師訓練，兩次家長、教師、義工全球網聚，四次來自香港、台灣及美國媒體的行政總裁專訪，六位老師於我哋公開免費使用的網站宣傳教學，九段轉載或自製影片，各媒體過萬瀏覽及過千會員........但我們仍不想停。當華粵學院在短短三個月已由一人變32人，董事承擔運作經費，CEO未領分毫，參賽者與捐款者皆投身義工團，學院已進入新階段，需要建立團隊，並透過團隊，全方位向既定使命進發。 

有見及此，未來首要任務喺全面建立團隊，成就團隊嘅夢想，讓每位團員充份發揮各自長處，有參與權及發言權，一同在推動、連結及訓練三大範疇嘅學院目標同心邁進。華粵學院在成立後的第三個月底已召開全體成員大會，共商大計，推動正體中文與粵語。“光復粵語！還我正體！”相信大會後會陸續有新計劃出爐，請大家密切留意。

CEO letter	2022.03        Kwai Chu So

A little progress each day adds up to big results.  Let’s keep rolling.  Let’s add oil!

Since the establishment of ICAC on Jan1, 2022, her Directors, Chief Executive Officer and volunteers have not had a single day off in the past three months.  At her 3rd month, 32 individuals are assigned to different groups to work on tasks based on their skill sets and passions. The seven groups are Language, Teaching, Fundraising, Youtube/Website, Social Media, Design and Documents.  All groups are in full swing to promote, connect and train.

I am proud to report on what ICAC has achieved so far.  There was a worldwide logo design contest completed with great success, a complimentary online Cantonese class offered to first time non-Cantonese speaking learners and trainee teachers, 2 online gatherings for parents, teachers and volunteers, 6 experienced teachers have posted their  self-promotion at ICAC website, 9 videos created or edited for various ICAC’s social media. Last but not least, I was on 4 media interviews from Hong Kong, Taiwan and the US to raise public awareness of our Institute. In just three months, ICAC has been growing from a one-person entity into a group of 32 volunteers, without getting any penny in return, but even donate to ICAC or pay for her daily operation cost.  Contestants and donors are pouring their hearts into our nonprofit group by signing up as volunteers. My heartfelt thanks and appreciation go to all of them! 

Things never get easier, so we just have to keep going!  ICAC has entered into a new stage, and it is necessary for us to build and maintain an efficient, cooperative and cohesive team to reach the next milestone.  Our first and foremost priority is to continue working on forming and developing a stronger group - encourage team members to play to their strengths, to participate and voice their opinions, and to work hand in hand towards our common goal “Restore our Chinese! Revive our Cantonese!”  A strategic planning meeting of all members has been scheduled on March 29,2022. I believe that new plans and project ideas will be created at the meeting.  Stay tuned!

