Institute of Chinese and Cantonese NPO (“ICAC,” “we” or “us”) places a high priority on protecting your privacy. This privacy policy explains the types of Personally Identifiable Information (“PII”) we collected via ICAC’s website when you voluntarily provide PII to us, or when you visit us online to browse, obtain information, or conduct a transaction. PII may include: your name, email, mailing and/or home address, phone numbers, or other information that identifies you personally. The PII you provide on ICAC’s website will be used only for its intended purpose. 
Personally Identifiable Information
ICAC does not require you to register or provide personal information to visit our website. Submitting PII through our website is voluntary. By doing so, you are giving ICAC your permission to use the information for the stated purpose.  If you choose to provide us with PII on our website, through completing a web form or sending us an email or make a donation, we will use that information to provide you the information or service you have requested or to respond to your message or to conduct a transaction for your monetary donation. 
Email Privacy
Our website allows you to send us an email. We will use the information you provide to respond to your inquiry. We suggest that you do not send sensitive personal data (such as your bank account, credit card, or Social Security number) to us via email. 
Automatically Collected Information
We collect and temporarily store certain information about your visit for use in site management and security purposes only. This information includes your IP address and your domain name; timestamp data; the URLs or addresses of the pages you visit; and the referring URL.
We may share the above information with our personnel or representatives as needed to quickly process your request or transaction. This information is only used to help us make our site more useful for you. 
Third-Party Websites & Links
Our website contains links to other sites. These websites are not within our control. Once you link to another site, you are subject to the privacy practices of that site.
ICAC does not use third-party websites to solicit and collect PII from individuals. Any PII passively collected by the third-party website will not be transmitted or stored by ICAC; no PII will be disclosed, sold or transferred to any other entity outside ICAC, unless required for law enforcement purposes or by statute.
Use of Cookies
Our website uses cookies to maintain a user's identity between sessions so that the site can be personalized based on user preferences or a user's history. You can set your web browser to prompt you before you accept a cookie, accept cookies automatically or reject all cookies. If you do not wish to have session or persistent cookies stored on your machine, you can turn cookies off  in your browser. However, turning off cookies may prevent you from fully access and use all or part of this website. 
Security
While no organization can guarantee 100% security, we use industry-standard security systems and encryption technologies–Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)–for the secure transfer of personal and financial data to help protect your information against unauthorized access, loss, destruction, or alteration
Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act
We welcome users of all ages.  As a non-profit organization, we are not required to comply with the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA). However, we strongly encourage our users aged thirteen and under to use our services only with parental consent.
Changes to Policy
We may amend this privacy policy from time to time. Please review it periodically. We maintain the right to modify this privacy policy at any time by posting a notice on our website. Your continued use of our website following notice of any such changes shall indicate your agreement to the changed terms.
Contact Information
If you have any questions about our privacy policy, please email to icac.npo@gmail.com or mail us at:
Institute of Chinese and Cantonese NPO
Privacy Office
2090 Pauline Blvd., Apt 2B
Ann Arbor, MI 48103




Updated  May 18, 2022 


